Python Tules, why are you even a thing?
Because you're pretty much the same as
a list. Like almost exactly the same.
Watch this. Here's how I create a
list and here's how you create a tule.
They're exactly the same. Come
on. I mean, I know to create them,
I had to use a bracket to create a
list. Opening, closing. Beyond that,
they're the same. They hold an ordered
list of data strings, integers.
Why is Python doing this to us? Just
to be confusing, to be difficult.
Cause I only ever use list. I
never used Tules. So in this video,
I wanna go on a journey. I want
to figure out why is there a tule?
Why is it even a thing? Why does it
exist? It's gonna be a small journey,
I think. Get your coffee
ready. Let's do this
Now, just to show you I'm not crazy. Let
me print the type of these data types.
We're on that code and bam, I
told you class list class tule.
So I googled it, ask chat,
G p T and ask my discord.
And there's one key difference
between a list and a tule immutable.
You can't mute Tules,
but you can mute lists.
But now I'm talking about tules and
you can hear me Immutable, not mutable.
All right Nick. So what I wanna do
there is like do a mute thing. <laugh>,
it's stupid, but we should play with it.
So it turns out immutable is just a
fancy word for you can't change it.
Whereas mutable means you can
change it. So a list you can change.
So let's try it out. Let's
change a value in our list.
We'll change Bernard to Chuck.
We'll say index zero equals chuck.
And we'll print that list to see
what it looks like. Nailed it.
It changed mutable. Let's try to
change our two pull, same process.
Call the zero index and have that equal
chuck and we'll try to print it out and
can't do it. It's immutable.
Can't touch this. Sorry,
I had to do it so we could stop
there. Video over. Case closed.
But if you're like me, you might
be wondering, so what <laugh>,
so what if you can't change?
I still don't see the reason,
the use case because it still seems
like we're trying to overcomplicate
something that should be very
simple. Just make it a list.
The list does everything. So
I dove deeper. But real quick,
before we overcomplicate
things with twos and lists,
let me tell you something that's not
complicated. Sponsor this video. Three cx.
Three CX is something you wanna play with
because having you always wanted your
own phone system. Yes you have.
You're about to get one for free.
Three CX has a new thing.
It's called three CX Startup.
Now in the phone system world,
things can get pretty complex.
Like it was my whole job if
that's how much of a pain it was.
But here you get the whole shebang,
live chat, video chat, a phone system,
and it's in the cloud. Like
legit. They're doing this now,
I don't know how they can do this, but
it's free forever for up to 10 users.
<laugh>, like seriously,
just try this out.
It's really fun putting your own phone
system right now, take you five minutes.
Nothing makes you feel more professional
than having a live chat on your
website.
Let's say you're a person in it and you
wanna have a killer resume portfolio
website. Imagine if you
had live chat on there,
<laugh> and a recruiter could come on
your website and just start chatting with
you. I did this just now.
Now it took me about five minutes
to set up my cloud phone system.
It's kind of stupid easy.
And then adding my live chat to WordPress
took just a few moments. Check it out.
Do you see that at the
bottom right chat icon?
Because they have a WordPress
plugin and it took no time at all.
I keep saying that, but that's
literally what it took. Say, hey,
tell me about Tules. And then bam,
looking back at my three CX web client,
there's the chat right there.
Tules are stupid and I'm helping
my client learn about Tules.
They don't only have a web client,
they've got a client for your phone,
Android and iOS. They've got a desktop
client. It's stupid how awesome this is.
And it's kind of crazy. They're giving
it away for free for up to 10 users.
Check it out. Link below. Anyways,
back to Tules and how stupid they are.
I'm just kidding. They're actually
pretty cool. That's what I learned.
I asked Google again and I asked my
discord, and here's what I learned.
Two things. Number one,
the fact that TU pulls are mutable
means they're faster than lists.
Like let me show you demonstration
time using a tool called time it.
We're gonna see how fast Python
can create. How many I eight,
how many zeros are here?
1 million list and 1 million Tules. Ready,
set, go. The results
are in and it's obvious,
1.43 seconds for a list and
0.13 seconds for a tule.
Dude that made a list cry.
But now I'm sure you're wondering
why is a tule faster than a list?
They're doing the same thing, right?
No, and it's back to mutability.
Our favorite word and it has to do with
storage. Because a list is mutable,
you can change it.
It's stored in two blocks of memory
to allow for new data change data.
Whereas a tuple, it's stored in one
block of memory, it's not gonna change.
And now I know in our example,
this little millisecond difference in
time doesn't seem like a big thing.
But in large, bulky programs, I could
be time save, money, save, it's okay.
At this point I'm kind of convinced
I get it. Two pools are pretty cool.
They're fast and I like fast.
But now on to 0.2 as to why we
use two pools and that's why.
Why do we use two pools?
What's the use case?
When am I going to need data that
can be changed? And for that,
I asked Google and my Discord
and I got fantastic answers.
I found a really great
answer on Stack Overflow.
And it has to do with the types of data
you might want to store in a list versus
a two and a list. You wanna store
what's called homogenous data.
That's just kind of fun to say. Go ahead
and say it homogenous. For example,
a list of names, all strings, the
same type of data, list of coffees,
list of YouTubers,
these are examples of data within a
list that we might add to change remove.
But in Tules you might use
he hetero heterogeneous data.
I can't say that.
So I might have one tule called YouTuber
and it would contain data about a
YouTuber name subscriber count. How
many does John Hammond have now? Woo.
519,000. Way to go, John Hammond.
And the types of videos he makes,
packing heterogeneous data.
Did I say it right The first time or
second time that felt really good.
It's all different, but it's all
data pertaining to a certain YouTube.
Basically it's how we're grouping
our different types of data.
And when you're working with
SQL Libraries in Python,
you're actually kind
of forced to use tules,
the option return tules when
you use things like fetch one,
fetch all and similar methods and
thank you Labret and My Discord.
And by the way, if you haven't joined
my Discord, check it out. Super helpful.
Amazing people in there that'll help
you on your Python learning journey.
And Grau also points out that you wanna
use a tuple for kind of read once data
quick stuff and function returns
for faster loading speed.
We'll talk more about functions
later. It's okay, I get it.
Tules have their place. They're a thing.
I might start using them, probably not,
but they're also kind of weird.
I'm gonna show you some weird things
you can do with them. Actually,
this one's kind of cool. You can
unpack a tule. So for example,
let's have this two bowl here.
I'll call it network Chuck.
I'll highly equal my name, my
age, and my favorite drink coffee.
I can unpack this and assign it
to multiple variables all at once.
By doing this, I'll create three
variables, name, age, drink,
and half that equal the
two bowl network, Chuck.
And that legit made three
separate variables that
unpack it as long as you have
them in the correct order. Let me print
all of them real quick. Print name,
print, age, and print and
drink. It's pretty cool, right?
Which by the way, you can
do the same thing with list.
So just now you know it's not unique to
Tules, but I hadn't talked about it yet.
I wanted to show it to you. Now
also, tules are kind of weird.
You probably saw this coming
cuz they have a weird name.
So tuple and I don't even know how to
say it, right, is it Tule or a tule?
I don't know. Comment below.
You probably don't know this.
You don't actually need to use
parentheses to make a tule. <laugh>.
Seriously watch this.
Totally. A tule, someone.
I'm gonna name this thing equals
swan. And then to make it a tule,
I don't need parenthesis. All
I have to do is just add a com.
I want you to need more than one
piece of data. <laugh> watch.
If I print the type of that data, it's
a tule <laugh>, which is so weird.
So you actually need parenthesis.
All you need is a comma. Like, Hey,
I've got multiple pieces of data.
Psych <laugh>. So uh, it's weird.
And there's more weird things. You
can easily turn a tule into a list.
Listen to a tule. You can
put a list inside a tule.
You can put a tule inside a list. You
can put a list inside a tule instead,
a tule inside a, inside a list,
inside a tule, inside a list.
And finally, let's make one more
tubal stuff you have to do. Like,
comment, subscribe, and look.
That's a tule. It's immutable.
You can't change it. Now you have to do.